add jumpstart scenario for Container Service for Kubernetes in Alibaba Cloud (#486)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_k8s/alibaba/alibaba_terraform/_index.md

---
type: docs
title: "Alibaba Cloud Container Service for Kubernetes Terraform plan"
linkTitle: "Alibaba Cloud Container Service for Kubernetes Terraform plan"
weight: 1
description: >
---

## Deploy Alibaba Cloud Container Service for Kubernetes cluster and connect it to Azure Arc using Terraform

> The following README will guide you on how to use the provided [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) plan to deploy an Alibaba Cloud [Container Service for Kubernetes](https://www.alibabacloud.com/product/kubernetes) and connect it as an Azure Arc cluster resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following README will guide you on how to use the provided [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) plan to deploy an Alibaba Cloud [Container Service for Kubernetes (ACK)](https://www.alibabacloud.com/product/kubernetes) and connect it as an Azure Arc cluster resource.
```

## Prerequisites

* Clone the Azure Arc Jumpstart repository

  ```shell
  git clone https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc.git
  ```

* [Install or update Azure CLI to version 2.21.0 and above](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Use the below command to check your current installed version.

  ```shell
  az --version
  ```

* [Install or update Helm to version 3.5.3 and above](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/). Use the below command to check your current installed version.

  ```shell
  helm version
  ```

> * optional: [Install or update Aliyun CLI to latest version 3.0.73 and above](https://github.com/aliyun/aliyun-cli). Use the below command to check your current installed version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* (Optional) [Install or update Aliyun CLI to latest version 3.0.73 and above](https://github.com/aliyun/aliyun-cli). Use the below command to check your current installed version.
```

  ![Cloud Resource Access Authorization](./04.png)

## Deployment

The only thing you need to do before executing the Terraform plan is to export the environment variables which will be used by the plan. This is based on the Azure service principal you've just created and your subscription.  

* Export the environment variables needed for the Terraform plan.

  ```shell
  export ALICLOUD_ACCESS_KEY="<Your Alibaba Cloud access key>"
  export ALICLOUD_SECRET_KEY="<Your Alibaba Cloud secret key>"
  export ALICLOUD_REGION="<Alibaba Cloud region>"
  export ALICLOUD_PROFILE="<Aliyun CLI profile>"
  export AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID="<Your Azure subscription id>"
  export AZURE_LOCATION="<Azure location>"
  export AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP="<Azure resource group>"
  export AZURE_CLUSTER_NAME="<Azure Arc cluster name>"
  ```

  For example:

  ```shell
  export ALICLOUD_ACCESS_KEY="aBcDeFgHiJkLmNo"
  export ALICLOUD_SECRET_KEY="aBcDeFgHiJkLmNoPqRtUvWxYz"
  export ALICLOUD_REGION="cn-shanghai"
  export ALICLOUD_PROFILE="akProfile"
  export AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID="XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX"
  export AZURE_LOCATION="southeastasia"

>   export AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP="Azure-Arc-Aliyun-K8S"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  export AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP="Azure-Arc-Aliyun-K8s"
```

  export AZURE_CLUSTER_NAME="azure-arc-aliyun"
  ```

  > **Note: If you are running in a PowerShell environment, to set the Terraform environment variables, use the _$env:variable-name=variable-value_ (see example below)**

  ```powershell
  $env:ALICLOUD_ACCESS_KEY="aBcDeFgHiJkLmNo"
  ```

* From folder `azure_arc_k8s_jumpstart/alibaba/terraform` run the ```terraform init``` command which will download the required terraform providers.

  ![terraform init output](./05.png)

> * Deploy cluster by running the ```terraform apply --auto-approve``` command. Wait for the plan to finish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deploy cluster by running the below command and wait for the plan to finish.

```shell
terraform apply --auto-approve
``` 
```

  ![terraform deploy output](./06.png)

>   ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: I will take the screenshots again to have those better aligned

>   ![terraform deploy output](./07.png)

Reviewer: Need to fix all the deprecation messages in the output

Author: @likamrat The deprecation messages are caused by the downstream Terraform module. So I see 2 options here:
1. resolve the module into own code and fix the issue which causes more/not so concise code on our end
2. limit the screen shot to "Apply complete! Resources: 8 added..."

Reviewer: @KaiWalter I understand. Then I would leave the screenshot the way it is and will put a note on how this can be safely ignored.

>   sample cluster in Alibaba Cloud Resource Management view:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Sample cluster in Alibaba Cloud Resource Management view:
```

  ![Alibaba Cloud Resource Management](./08.png)

> * The plan will drop the created clusters configuration in users home directory `~/.kube/config` to be used with `kubectl` or `helm`. But to make it usable with `helm`, file permissions need to be reduced:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The plan will create the _kubeconfig_ file in the home directory `~/.kube/config` to be used with `kubectl` or `helm`. 
```

What's the reason for having the helm comment here?

   ```shell
   chmod go-r ~/.kube/config
   ```

## Connecting to Azure Arc

> * Now that you have running cluster, based on the environment variables set and Azure environment prepared above, you can connect the Alibaba Cloud cluster to Azure Arc:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Now that you have a running cluster, based on the environment variables set and Azure environment prepared above, you can connect the Alibaba Cloud cluster to Azure Arc:
```

   ```shell
   az login
   az account set -s $AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID
   az group create --location $AZURE_LOCATION --name $AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP
   ```

>    output should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Output should look like this:
```

   ```json
   {
     "id": "/subscriptions/XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX/resourceGroups/Azure-Arc-Aliyun-K8S",
     "location": "southeastasia",
     "managedBy": null,
     "name": "Azure-Arc-Aliyun-K8S",
     "properties": {
       "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
     },
     "type": "Microsoft.Resources/resourceGroups"
   }
   ```

   connect the cluster:

   ```shell
   az connectedk8s connect --name $AZURE_CLUSTER_NAME --resource-group $AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP --location $AZURE_LOCATION
   ```

>    sample output
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

   ![Connect Alibaba cluster to Azure Arc](./09.png)

> 
>    sample cluster in Azure Portal
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>    ![Connect Alibaba cluster to Azure Arc](./10.png)

Reviewer: Take the screenshot after all the resource metadata is populated in the portal.

## Delete the deployment

> To delete the environment in Azure, the use *`az group delete --resource-group $AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP -y`* command.

Reviewer: Add output screenshot as well as a portal screenshot on deleting the resource group

> To delete the environment in Alibaba Cloud, use the *`terraform refresh`* and *`terraform destroy --auto-approve`* commands.
> 
> output:
> 
> ```text
> Destroy complete! Resources: 8 destroyed.
> ```
> 
> > **Note: `terraform refresh` will update the local state to that `terraform destroy` also handles automatically generated resources like _Elastic IP Address_ and/or _NAT Gateway_.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete the environment in Alibaba Cloud, use the *`terraform refresh`* and *`terraform destroy --auto-approve`* commands.

> **Note: `terraform refresh` will update the local state to that `terraform destroy` also handles automatically generated resources like _Elastic IP Address_ and/or _NAT Gateway_.**

output:

```text
Destroy complete! Resources: 8 destroyed.
```
```

Reviewer: Better to add a _terrafform destroy_ screenshot here
